[GraphQL/Docs] Documenting Connections, Cursors, Pagination etc. (#16020)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/concepts/graphql-rpc/pagination.mdx

{@include: ../../snippets/info-graphql-release.mdx}

> GraphQL supports queries that fetches multiple different kinds of data, potentially nested. For example, the following query retrieves the first 20 transaction blocks (along with the digest, the sender's address, the gas object used to pay for the transaction, the gas price, and the gas budget) after a specific transaction block at epoch `97`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphQL supports queries that fetch multiple kinds of data, potentially nested. For example, the following query retrieves the first 20 transaction blocks (along with the digest, the sender's address, the gas object used to pay for the transaction, the gas price, and the gas budget) after a specific transaction block at epoch `97`.
```

Cursors are used to bound results from below (with `after`) and above (with `before`). In both cases, the bound is exclusive, meaning it does not include the result that the cursor points to in the bounded region.

### Consistency

Cursors also guarantee **consistent** pagination. If the first paginated query reads the state of the network at checkpoint `X`, then a future call to fetch the next page of results using the cursors returned by the first query will continue to read from the network at checkpoint `X`, even if data for future checkpoints is now available.

This property requires that cursors that are used together (for example when supplying an `after` and `before` bound) are fixed on the same checkpoint, otherwise the query will produce an error.

### Available Range

The GraphQL service does not support consistent pagination for arbitrarily old cursors. A cursor can grow stale, if the checkpoint it is from is no longer in the **available range**. The upper- and lower-bounds of that range can be queried as follows:

```graphql
{
  availableRange {
    first { sequenceNumber }
    last { sequenceNumber }
  }
}
```

> The results are the first and last checkpoint for which pagination will continue to work and produce a consitent result. At the time of writing the available range offers a 5 to 15 minute buffer period to finish pagination in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results are the first and last checkpoint for which pagination will continue to work and produce a consistent result. At the time of writing the available range offers a 5 to 15 minute buffer period to finish pagination in.
```
